---
title: ArtWalk Boston
date: 2013-05-24 14:50 -06:00
tags:
image: images/blog
---

Life moves fast in Boston and in many other cities around the world, so much so that we often forget to lift up our heads to discover the beatiful things about the place and the culture in which we live.  One thing that graces Boston (my home to be, come August 2013) and many other cities is art that lives on walls and in parks and in other public spaces.  While many of these pieces of art go unnoticed or unappreciated because of the fast pace at which many people move or because of the distractions, often digital, that seem to drive our daily behavior, they stealthily give places a unique idenitity.  An identity that, conciously or subconsciously, draws people to a place.  A friend of mine in Boston, by the name of Zack, took on what he thought would be a small project in documenting the street art in Somerville and Cambridge MA.  His project is not as small as he thought it would be.  There is public art all over and beyond the areas in which he started keeping his eyes peeled.  And while the art itself adds dimension and beauty to these places, the act of looking for the art has made Zack more attuned to his surroundings, more so than he and many people would be.  He has discoverd many other great things about his community that he otherwise may not have.  While technology can often distract people from their surroundings, it can also be something that makes people more attuned, like Zack, to their community.  Therefore, we are planning to build an application that will allow people to easily join our journey in documenting public art, that will facilitate the planning of artwalks, and will ultimately help people view their community through a different lens.  More details on this to come in the next few days...

