---
title: Getting Initialized
date: 2013-02-03 15:44 -07:00
tags:
---

So far, I have enjoyed reading "The Passionate Programmer."  Being a musician myself (percussionist) makes Fowler's musical analogies resonate with me in a personal way.  That being said, his suggestion of 'Be the Worst' resonates with my experience in the University of Notre Dame Marching Band.  Having never taken drum lessons prior to college, reading drum music was something that I did not know how to do, and, despite my desire to walk on to the drumline, was required to get in the band.  So, without much of a clue about reading music, I tried out for the band, and after making it through three surprisingly intense days of 'band camp,' I did not make the cut.  Long story short, I spent much of the next year taking lessons and practicing the drum cadences which resulted in my name being placed on the glorified band roster.  And so began my stint in a 450 person band that played in front of +80,000 people every Saturday of the fall and winter.<p>As Folwer suggests, we tend to adopt the habits of those with whom we surround ourselves.  He mentioned that while paying Jazz with less skilled bar bands he would adopt ther bad habits and end up bringing those back to his performaces with better bands, and vice versa with the good habits of the latter. Being the 'worst' or most inexperienced member of the drumline proved to be a tremendously valuable experience for my development as a drummer insofar as I was held to a high standard which necessitated that I adopt the disciplines of my more experienced bandmantes.  My drum 'chops' did not magically appear via osmosis, but rather were the result of, yes those around me, in addition to perfect practice attendance for 2 years and time spent in my dorm room practicing the music.  There are multiple ways that this experience seems like it will relate to gSchool.</p><p>gSchool 'Week 0' helped me understand more about my classmates and where I stand as far as previous programming experience.  I got the gist that I am on the newby end of the spectrum which, at the end of the week, left me with a feeling that I will have good peer collaboration and support throughout the next 6 months.  Of course, gSchool will requrie that <strong>I</strong> put in the work to learn all that I can, and with those around me holding a high performance standard, I feel set up to learn a lot!  It feels good to say that after a week that introduced me to a new large body of technical knowledge, of which I have only scratched the surface, I am moving into 'Week 1' with more excitement and confidence than fear.  Bring it on.</p>