---
title: SalesEngine & Becoming a Developer
date: 2013-02-15 09:05 -07:00
tags:
---

Week three of gSchool and we are in the thick of the SalesEngine project.  The project itself has been working my brain, and the pairing process has added an interesting social dimension to the project.  As a person that is still fresh in the coding game I think that the pairing process has been, on the whole, a good thing for me.  My pair is more knowledgeable than I am about programming and Ruby and he has been good about making sure I get what we are doing on any given step before we move forward to the next.  Of course, even with his explanations and patience, I still don't fully 'get' everything that we are doing.  That being said, it has been good having a pair for the sake of moving the project forward efficiently.  Thus far in the gSchool programm I have heard, more than once, that the social component of the creative process is harder and more important that the programming itself.  Fortunatley, I feel that social interactions generally come naturally to me and therefore working with a pair has not deterred my learning and work flow.

Regarding how I feel at the end of week 3 (of 24), I feel a bit tired and like I have a lot of learning ahead of me.  I would say that I have a 'long road' ahead of me the next 21 weeks, but the days and weeks seem to go by pretty quickly.  So, for me, the feeling is less that the road is going to feel long and more that there is a lot of work and dedication that will be required of me to leave the program as a 'professional'... with a job.  I spoke with Kartina the other day about how it is hard for me at this point to envision myself contributing programming skills at a professional level just in 5ish months, because right now I am struggling to just get the basics down.  Struggling is not to say that my learning isn't coming along, and ya got to start somewhere.  Right?  The most exciting thing about the next 24 weeks is the oppotunity to make better friends with the gStudents and to surprise myself (through hard work) how far I will come from where I am now.  More thoughts/updates on this to come in my next post.

